On your computer, your web
browser is the software you need
in order to access and interact
with the content.
On the web, most oerating
systems come with at least one
builtin web browser alication.
For example, Mac O computers
include the Afari browser and
Windows 10 includes Microsoft
Edge.
But there are several other
browsers on the market to choose
from, including Google Chrome
and Mozilla Firefox.
At the most basic level, all
browsers allow you to access
websites, download files, images
and videos on websites, and so
on.
Browsers mainly vary in the
features they include, but these
days most browsers have very
similar features.
Here we'll take a look at
browsing the web with Microsoft
Edge, but you'll be able to use
other modern browsers in mostly
the same way.
I'll open U Microsoft Edge, and
there it is.
To access a website, we enter
the URL or address of the site
into the address bar at the top
of the window.
The browser loads the web page
and it's dislayed in the main
part of the window.
We can use the scroll bar to
Scroll down the page, to view it
and to interact with all the
elements on the page.
Webages usually contain
hyperlinks, often just called
links that point to other pages
on the website or to entirely
different websites.
You can often tell if text is a
hyperlink by its appearance.
It's usually a different color
from the surrounding text, like
we see here, or it becomes
underlined or already is
underlined, or it's just
visually different in some other
way.
Alternately, if you place your
mouse over text or an image and
the cursor turns into a hand
with a ointing finger that
indicates the item is a
clickable link, you'll also see
the address that clicking the
link will take you to there in
the lower left hand corner.
And if I click that link, I'll
go to that page and now we're
looking at the webage that was
linked from the previous page
and we can start browsing this
page.
If necessary, you can go back to
the previous page by clicking
the back button in the browser.
Imilarly, you can click the
forward button to view that
linked age again.
Although it's easy to move back
and forth between ages like
this, there are often times when
you need to reference multile
webages at the same time, and
going back and forth can get
tedious.
A solution is to use tabs, which
are a feature of web browsers
that allow you to open multiple
webages at the same time in the
same browser window.
For example, maybe I'm searching
for Microsoft Surface tablets.
I'll click that link and as you
can see, there are many
different models to choose from
here.
Clicking one of these takes me
to the page about that model and
then I need to click the back
button to go back to the links
to look at the other models.
To save time, I'm going to
rightclick on the link and
choose Open link in new tab in
this particular browser that
opens a new tab here in the
background and you can see the
title of the page here.
In some web browsers deending on
your settings, the new tab may
open in the front, but in either
case you can switch back and
forth between tabs just by
clicking them.
O Now I can rightclick on the
links for the other product
versions I'm interested in and
open them in new tabs as well.
And once I've done that, I can
now switch among all the tabs to
do my research.
You can also oen webages in new
Windows by rightclicking and
choosing Open link in new
window.
Opening links in new Windows can
help you stay organized by
grouing related tabs in their
own window and opening unrelated
tabs in other windows, but
that's a matter of personal
preference.
But because these are searate
windows, I can move this one
slightly out of the way and
still see the other window here
in the background and I can
switch to that if I needed to.
You can always Kee track of the
webages you visit by using the
history feature of the browser.
In Edge click the three dot
button here in the uer right
hand corner and roll your mouse
over history and from here I can
choose Manage History to see a
list of the web pages I visited,
organized by date.
You have the option to clear web
ages from your history whenever
you like, which you can do by
clicking Clear Browsing Data.
Here, I could choose to clear
the browsing history from the
last 24 hours, the last hour,
the last seven days, the last
four weeks, and all of my
browsing history.
I'll leave that as is for now,
though.
Again, you'll find all the
features we've seen here in
Microsoft Edge in other browsers
as well, but they may be located
in different laces.
But once you've familiarized
yourself with your preferred
browser, you'll find these
features make it easy to browse
the web.